Add Large Gemm (#12)
KULeuven-MICAS/snax-gemm: README.md

Reviewer: @xiaoling-yi in your presentations you mentioned some prior work that your work is inspired by.
I feel like we should add some acknowledgements/references to the bottom of this README file to reference to those. What do you think?

<!-- This repository contains three GEMM versions: Base GEMM, Block GEMM, and Batch Block GEMM. -->
### Base GEMM
Base GEMM implements General Matrix Multiply: C = A * B. Base GEMM is parameterized and its parameters are listed below. These parameters can be configured in the `main/scala/gemm/Parameter.scala` file.
| Parameter | Meaning |
| - | -|
| dataWidthA | Input matrix data width (integer) |
| dataWidthC | Output matrix data width (integer) |
| dataWidthAccum | Accumulator data width (integer) |
| meshRow | The row number of the GEMM array |
| meshCol | The column number of the GEMM array |
| tileSize | The tile size of each tile |

The size of matrix A is (meshRow, tileSize) and the size of matrix B is (tileSize, meshCol). The size of result matrix C is (meshRow, meshCol). To get the right results, matrix A should be arranged in `row-major order` and matrix B should be arranged in `column-major order`. The result matrix C is arranged in `row-major order` by Base Gemm. The data layout of the three matrices is shown below. The data in each small block indicates the address. How the address increases shows the data arrangement in memory.

![](./docs/datalayout_mem.png)

> Each row of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding row of matrix A, eg., all the tiles in row ith takes in the ith row of matrix A. And each column of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding column of matrix B, eg., all the tiles in column jth take in the jth column of matrix B. This process is shown in the figure below in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each row of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding row of matrix A, i.e., all the tiles in the ith row take in the ith row of matrix A. And each column of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding column of matrix B, i.e., all the tiles in the jth column take in the jth column of matrix B. This process is shown in the figure below in detail.
```

![](./docs/datalayout.png)

> The base GEMM also has an accumulation option. If the signal `accumulate` is one, then the accumulator register will store the current result. If the signal `accumulate` is zero, then the accumulator register will clear itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base GEMM also has an accumulation option. If the signal `accumulate` is one, then the accumulator register will retain it's current result. If the signal `accumulate` is zero, then the accumulator register will clear itself.
This option is useful for using the base GEMM for software-managed block matrix multiplication.

```

Reviewer: Do you think this is a useful comment to add here @xiaoling-yi ?

The Base GEMM function definition pseudocode is shown below.
```
bool gemm(int8_t *A, int8_t *B, int32_t * C, bool accumulate)
```

### Block GEMM
The Block GEMM is built with the Base GEMM. 
The GEMM accelerator uses the [Block matrix multiplication method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_matrix#Block_matrix_multiplication) to implement matrix multiplication in which the matrix sizes are larger than the physical GEMM array. 

It takes in the M, K, and N configurations as the size of the block gemm. 
In this case, the size of matrix A is (`M' = M * meshRow`, `K' = K * tileSize`) and the size of matrix B is (`K' = K * tileSize`, `N' = N * meshCol`). The size of result matrix C is (`M' = M * meshRow, N' = N * meshCol`) as shown below.

![](./docs/general_mm.png)

#### Computation analysis

> Take a Block Gemm with hardware parmaters: `meshRow == tileSize == meshCol == 8` as an example, the `M, K, and N` should be configured as `4, 2, and 3` respectively if we want to do the block matrix multiplication with `C(32,24) = A(32,16) * B(16,24), M’ = 32, K’ = 16, N’ = 24`. The block matrix multiplication is illustrated in the picture below. With: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a Block Gemm with hardware parameters: `meshRow == tileSize == meshCol == 8` as an example, the `M, K, and N` should be configured as `4, 2, and 3` respectively if we want to do the block matrix multiplication with `C(32,24) = A(32,16) * B(16,24), M’ = 32, K’ = 16, N’ = 24`. The block matrix multiplication is illustrated in the picture below. With: 
```

* M<sub>u</sub> (M unrolling) = meshRow = 8
* K<sub>u</sub> (K unrolling) = tileSize = 8
* N<sub>u</sub> (N unrolling) = meshCol = 8

![](./docs/block_mm.png)

The pseudocode is :
```
for (m1 = 0 to M’/Mu - 1); 
for (n1 = 0 to N’/Nu - 1); 
for (k1 = 0 to K’/Ku - 1); 
  parallel_for(m2 = 0 to Mu)
  parallel_for(n2 = 0 to Nu)
  parallel_for(k2 = 0 to Ku)
  o[m1*Mu+m2][n1*Nu+n2] += i[m1*Mu+m2][k1*Ku+k2] * w[k1*Ku+k2][n1*Nu+n2];
```

#### Data layout

> To get the right results, matrices should have the right layout in memory. The address of martix A, B, and C should also be given when configuring the Block Gemm. In the current version, these data should be stored in memory in a continuous address style. 

Reviewer: Do you mean that A and B have to be stored right next to each other? Then I would put it like this:
```suggestion
To get the right results, the input matrices should have the right layout in memory. The address of matrix A, B, and C should also be given when configuring the Block Gemm. In the current version, the data of A and B should be stored contiguously in memory. 
```

Reviewer: If you mean that A and B's elements have to be stored right next to eachother I would put it like this:
```suggestion
To get the right results, the input matrices should have the right layout in memory. The address of matrix A, B, and C should also be given when configuring the Block Gemm. In the current version, the data of A and B should be stored in memory with a stride of 1. 
```

Take a Block Gemm with hardware parameters: `meshRow == tileSize == meshCol == 8` as an example, the `M, K, and N` should be configured as `3, 4, and 5` respectively if we want to do the block matrix multiplication with `C(24,40) = A(24,32) * B(32,40), M’ = 24, K’ = 32, N’ = 40` as shown in below.

![](./docs/block_mm_for_new_datalayout.png)

> To get the right results, the matrix A should be arranged as M<sub>3</sub> K<sub>4</sub> M<sub>8</sub> K<sub>8</sub>. B should be arranged as N<sub>5</sub> K<sub>4</sub> N<sub>8</sub> K<sub>8</sub>. C should be arranged as M<sub>3</sub> N<sub>5</sub> M<sub>8</sub> N<sub>8</sub>. Take matrix A for example, the innermost is 8 elements in the K dimension, then is the 8 rows in the M dimension, then is 4 big columns in the K dimension, and the outermost is 3 big rows in the M dimension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the right results for `M = 3`, `K=4` and `N=5` , the matrix A should be arranged as M<sub>3</sub> K<sub>4</sub> M<sub>8</sub> K<sub>8</sub>. B should be arranged as N<sub>5</sub> K<sub>4</sub> N<sub>8</sub> K<sub>8</sub>. C should be arranged as M<sub>3</sub> N<sub>5</sub> M<sub>8</sub> N<sub>8</sub>. Take matrix A for example, the innermost is 8 elements in the K dimension, then is the 8 rows in the M dimension, then is 4 big columns in the K dimension, and the outermost is 3 big rows in the M dimension.
```

![](./docs/microarch.png)

## Functional description

> <!-- This repository contains three GEMM versions: Base GEMM, Block GEMM, and Batch Block GEMM. -->

Reviewer: Could still be useful to uncomment this IMO?

Author: Yes, because we do not have Batch Block GEMM get.

### Base GEMM

> Base GEMM implements General Matrix Multiply: C = A * B. Base GEMM is parameterized and its parameters are listed below. These parameters can be configured in the `main/scala/gemm/Parameter.scala` file.

Reviewer: GEMM in BLAS is defined as:
```c
 GEMM (&transa, &transb, &m, &n, &k, alpha, a, &lda, b, &ldb, beta, c, &ldc);
```
So this feels like a misnomer, it feels like we are implementing https://www.mlplatform.org/tosa/tosa_spec.html#_matmul instead?

Author: I donn't know...

![](./docs/datalayout_mem.png)

Each row of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding row of matrix A, eg., all the tiles in row ith takes in the ith row of matrix A. And each column of the GEMM array takes in the corresponding column of matrix B, eg., all the tiles in column jth take in the jth column of matrix B. This process is shown in the figure below in detail.

![](./docs/datalayout.png)

The base GEMM also has an accumulation option. If the signal `accumulate` is one, then the accumulator register will store the current result. If the signal `accumulate` is zero, then the accumulator register will clear itself.

The Base GEMM function definition pseudocode is shown below.
```
bool gemm(int8_t *A, int8_t *B, int32_t * C, bool accumulate)
```

### Block GEMM
The Block GEMM is built with the Base GEMM. 
The GEMM accelerator uses the [Block matrix multiplication method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_matrix#Block_matrix_multiplication) to implement matrix multiplication in which the matrix sizes are larger than the physical GEMM array. 

It takes in the M, K, and N configurations as the size of the block gemm. 

> In this case, the size of matrix A is (M' = M * meshRow, K' = K * tileSize) and the size of matrix B is (K' = K * tileSize, N' = N * meshCol). The size of result matrix C is (M' = M * meshRow, N' = N * meshCol) as shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, the size of matrix A is (`M' = M * meshRow`, `K' = K * tileSize`) and the size of matrix B is (`K' = K * tileSize`, `N' = N * meshCol`). The size of result matrix C is (`M' = M * meshRow, N' = N * meshCol`) as shown below.
```

Just so that the formatting is consistent 🍰

Reviewer 2: Actually do it for others too 😉

## Functional description

> <!-- This repository contains three GEMM versions: Base GEMM, Large GEMM, and Batch Large GEMM. -->

Reviewer 3: Block GEMM

> <!-- This repository contains three GEMM versions: Base GEMM, Large GEMM, and Batch Large GEMM. -->

Reviewer 3: Batch Block GEMM

### Base GEMM
Base GEMM implements General Matrix Multiply: C = A * B. Base GEMM is parameterized and its parameters are listed below. These parameters can be configured in the Parameter.scala file.
| Parameter | Meaning |
| - | -|

> | input | Input matrix data width (integer) |

Reviewer 3: My general suggestion here is that you should have a style guide and maintain consistency for the:

1) run-time variables: input and outputs, and its suffix
2) design-time variables: architecture definitions, block sizes, and bitwidths
3) class names
4) function names
5) state variables

You need first to make a simple document or a repo: Chisel Style Guide with the decision on how you will maintain this consistency forever.

Input and output are too generic to be data width.
You could use a more clear nomenclature.
I also suggest thinking that A and B could have different precisions.

My suggestion is as follows:

dataWidthA
dataWidthB
dataWidthC
dataWidthAccum

bool gemm(int8_t *A, int8_t *B, int32_t * C, bool accumulate)
```

### Block GEMM

> The Block GEMM is built with the Base GEMM. It takes in the M, K, and N configurations.

Reviewer: Could you be a bit more explicit about the fact that M, K and N set the size of the block gemm and not the individual elements of the block gemm? In the small GEMM the matrix A and B are always of a certain size, and in this part of the documentation, their size suddenly changes?

> In this case, the size of matrix A is (M * meshRow, K * tileSize) and the size of matrix B is (K * tileSize, N * meshCol). The size of result matrix C is (M * meshRow, N * meshCol). The GEMM accelerator uses Block matrix multiplication [](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_matrix#Block_matrix_multiplication) method to implement matrix multiplication in which the matrix sizes are much larger than the physical GEMM array. To get the right results, matrixes should have the right layout in memory. In the current version, these data should be stored in memory in a continuous address style. Below is an example data layout in memory for M = 2, K = 2, and N = 2. The address of martix A, B and C should also be gave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the size of matrix A is (M * meshRow, K * tileSize) and the size of matrix B is (K * tileSize, N * meshCol). The size of result matrix C is (M * meshRow, N * meshCol). 

The GEMM accelerator uses the [Block matrix multiplication method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_matrix#Block_matrix_multiplication) to implement matrix multiplication in which the matrix sizes are larger than the physical GEMM array. 

To get the right results, matrixes should have the right layout in memory. In the current version, these data should be stored in memory in a continuous address style. Below is an example data layout in memory for M = 2, K = 2, and N = 2. The address of martix A, B and C should also be given.
```

> ![](./docs/block_matrix_mul.png)

Reviewer: I don't understand this figure.
What is `a11`, what is `a12`? Can we only multiply square matrices?
What is on the x-axis? Is this the memory address? Is this a different bank? Is this the matrix index?
What does the arrow (there's no arrow head) represent? In which direction is the arrow going?
Why is one arrow blue, and the other one orange?

Reviewer: It seems the figure shows the M=4, N=4 and K=4 case, and not M=2, K=2 and N =2?

Author: More illustration added..

The Block GEMM function definition pseudocode is shown below.
```
bool blockGemm(int M, int K, int N, int8_t *A, int8_t *B, int32_t * C)
```
#### Ports

> | Signals | Width | Dir | Discription |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Signals | Width | Dir | Description |
```

| - | - | - | - |
| M_in | 8 | In | The M size setting |
| K_in | 8 | In | The K size setting |
| N_in | 8 | In | The N size setting |
| addr_a_in | 32 | In | The address of the matrix A. It points to the first data element of matrix A.|
| addr_b_in | 32 | In | The address of the matrix B. It points to the first data element of matrix B.|
| addr_c_in | 32 | In | The address of the matrix C. It points to the first data element of matrix C.|
| start_do | 1 | In |  Start do signal. When this `start_do` signal asserts, all the configuration signals (M_in, K_in, N_in, addr_a_in, addr_b_in and addr_c_in) should be ready| 

> | data_valid_i | 1 | In | Input data valid signal|

Author: We don't have  data_valid_o because we use gemm_write_valid to indicate the data is valid for output
